1-1 Introduction to Big Data and Language
Course Overview
1) Why and how big data is used for language analysis.
2) Different spoken and written data characteristics, and the concept of linguistic registers.
3) Basic linguistic knowledge for language analyses: part of speech, collocations.
4) Tools to extract meaningful information from the text data.
5) Recent technology in the natural language processing field.



1-2 The 4th Industrial Revolution and Big Data
The 1st Industrial Revolution: 18th century, steam power-based mechanization revolution
1) The transition to new manufacturing processes in Europe and the United States.
2) Machines replace hand production methods.
3) The increasing use of steam power and water power.
4) The rise of the mechanized factory system.
5) The dominant industry: textile
6) In 1788, there were 50,000 spindles in Britain, rising to 7 million over the next 30 years. (Beckert, 2014)
7) The share of value added by the cotton textile industry in Britain was 22.4% in 1831.
8) Led to an unprecedented rise in the rate of population growth and urbanization.

The 2nd Industrial Revolution: electrical energy-based, mass production, revolution
1) Technological revolution
2) A phase of rapid industrialization
3) Electrification was called "the most important engineering achievement of the 20th century." (Constable, 2003)
4) The dominant industry: telegraph and railroad networks, gas and water supply, and sewage systems.
5) Led to unprecedented movement of people and ideas: by the 19th century, 40% of the US population lived in cities, 
compared to just 6% in the 18th century. This culminated in a new wave of globalization.

The 3rd Industrial Revolution：Late 20th Century，Computer & Internet - based Information Revolution
1) The digital revolution.
2) Brought semiconductors, mainframe computing, personal computing, and the internet—the digital revolution.
3) Analog moved to digital technologies.
4) An old television you used to tune in with an antenna (analog) is being replaced by an internet-connected tablet.
5) Began to automate production and take supply chains global.

The 3rd Industrial Revolution: Analog Era, Communication Era, Digital Era, Internet Era
The 4th Industrial Revolution: Data Era, AI Era, Artificial Creation Era
                               Example: Could computing, big data, smartphones, unmanned cars, drones



1-3 Intuition and Big Data
Benefits of Intuitions: Intuitions are always useful in linguistics.
1) To invent (grammatical, ungrammatical, or questionable）example sentences for linguistics analysis.
2) To make judgements about the acceptability/grammaticality, or meaning of an expression.
3) To help with categorization.

Intuitions with Caution: Intuitions should be applied with caution.
1) Possibly biased as they are likely to be influenced by one's dialect or sociolect.
2) Introspective data is artificial and may not represent typical language use, as one is consciously monitoring one's
language production.
3) Introspective data is decontextualized because it exists in the analyst's mind rather than in any real linguistic context.
4) Intuitions are not observable and verifiable by everyone.
5) Excessive reliance on intuitions blinds the analyst to the realities of language usage because we tend to notice
the unusual but overlook the commonplace.
6) There are areas in linguistics where intuitions may not be used reliably. E.g., historical linguistics,
language variation.
7) Human beings have only the vaguest notion of the frequency of a construct or a word.

Benefits of Big Data: Data is more reliable, more natural, and more contextualized.
1) Data pools together linguistic intuitions of a range of language speakers, which offsets the potential biases in intuitions
of individual speakers.
2) It is used in real communications instead of being invented specifically for linguistic analysis.
3) Attested language use which has already occurred in a real linguistic context.
4) Data can find differences that intuitions alone cannot perceive. E.g., synonyms (very, highly, extremely)



1-4 Data and Language
Why is big data used to understand language?
1) Even experts have only a partial knowledge of a language. 
   Big data can be more comprehensive and balanced.
   Big data can show us what is common and typical.
2) Even experts cannot qualify their knowledge of language.
   Big data can provide us with accurate statistics.
3) Even experts cannot remember everything they know.
   Big data can store and recall all the information.
4) Even experts cannot make up natural examples.
   Big data can provide us with a vast number of examples in authentic contexts.
5) Even experts have prejudices and preferences.
   Big data can give you more objective evidence.
6) Even experts are not always available to be consulted.
   Big data can be made permanently accessible to all.
7) Even experts cannot keep up with language change.
   A constantly updated big data can reflect even recent changes.
8) Even experts lack authority: they can be challenged by other experts.
   Bid data can encompass the actual language use of many expert speakers.



1-5 Recent Research on Big Data and Language
Machine Translation
1) Focus on large monolingual corpora in each language.
2) Using several methods for the optimal result.

Question Answering
(Question? → Qustion interface → Question classification → Query Formulation → Database →
Answer Extraction → Display Answer)
1) Answering questions that require reasoning over multiple facts.
2) Reducing the original query to a more informed query through layers.

Caption Generation
(Picture → Sentence)
1) Using a dataset of 82K images for training and 42K for testing.
2) Achieving results comparable to human evaluation.
3) Still makes mistakes.

Text Classification

Speech Recognition 
E.g., Alexa

Much more research in NLP, such as language modelling, named entity recognition
