2-1 Characteristics of Spoken English I
Discourse markers (E.g., well, oh, like, of course, yeah...)
1) important features of spoken language with many different functions
2) perform several functions at the same time
3) the overall function: to show the listener how to interpret what the speaker is saying

Most typical functions of the discourse markers:
1) Appealing to the listener for understanding
2) Creating solidarity with the listener
3) Showing how the speaker feels about what they say
4) Marking information that is new to the discourse or marking the start of a new topic
5) Marking grammatical structure by being placed at the beginning or end of a clause
   or at the start of reported speech
6) Marking the beginning or end of a turn

General extenders (E.g., and stuff, and things, or something...)
Functions: 
1) indicating that the previous word is part of a set; 
   extending the meaning of that word without having to specify all the members of the set
2) People use these words to be purposely vague, to signal that they are not quite sure about something
3) the most important function: 
   creating solidarity between speakers
   the person speaking suggests that their interlocutors have shared knowledge

Hedges
They are the words that downtone the meaning of the following word.
E.g., That's "a bit" cold. 
      She is "about" twenty years old.

Intensifiers (E.g., really, very...)
They occur before an adjective or an adverb and boost the strength of its meaning.
They tend to fall in and out of fashion in spoken language.




2-2 Characteristics of Spoken English II
Backchannels/minimal responses (E.g., hmmm, yeah...)
Listeners may show the speaker that they are listening and understanding.
Usually skillfully placed at the end of a clause.

Clause combining (E.g. and, so, but)
When they are speaking spontaneously, people do not ususally have time to combine their clauses 
in the various ways that they might use in writing. (When they might have subordinate clauses introduced
by a range of conjunctions such as however, therefore, or since.)

Conversational historical present
When people are talking about something that happened in the past, the verbs are usually in the past
tense, but they are sometimes in the present tense instead (even though they are talking about the past).
The present tense makes the discourse more involving and lively.
When a present tense verb refers to a past event, the tence is termed the conversational historical present.

Deixis (E.g., personal pronouns, here, there...)
When they are speaking, people often refer to the things that are in the immediate context.




2-3 Characteristics of Spoken English
Monophthong
A vowel sound that is "pure" in that the beginning and the end of the vovel are more or less the same.
This is by contrast with a dipthong, which glides from one position to another.
People use monothong because they want to save energy in a conversation that is speedy and rich in information.

Non-standard grammar
The main nonstandard forms in the extracts are past tense and past participle verb forms.
E.g., I done it. I come here yesterday.

Non-fluency features
E.g. Silence pauses
     Filled pauses (uh, um...)
     Repitition
     False starts (like crossings out in writing)

Slang 




2-4 Differences between Written and Spoken English
1) Spoken language tends to be full of repititions, incomplete sentences, corrections and interruptions.
   The exception of formal speeches and other scripted forms of speech, such as news reports and scripts for plays and films.
   The punction and layout of written texts have no spoken equivalent.
   However, some forms of written language, such as instant messages and email, are closer to spoken language.
2) Some types of vocabulary are used only or mainly in speech.
   These include slangs and tags (E.g., y'know, like...).
   Some grammatical constructions are used only in writing. 
3) Speech can use timing, tone, volume, and timbre to ass emotional context.
   Writers can make use of punctuation, headings, layout, colors and their graphical effects in their witten texts.
4) Speech is usually transient, unless recorded. Speakers can correct themselves and change their utterances as they go along.
   Writing is usually permanent. Written texts cannot usually be changed once they have been printed/written out.
5) A written text can communicate across time and space for as long as the particular language and writing system is still understood.
6) Speech is usually a dynamic interation between two or more people.
   Writers receive no immediate feedback from their readers, except in computer-based communication. They cannot rely on context to 
   clarify things so there is more need to explain things clearly and unambiguously than in speech, except in written correspondence 
   between people who know one another well. 
7) All written materials can be read repeated and closely analyzed.
   Only recorded speech can be used in this way.
