3-1 Corpus Linguistics
A corpus is a collection of machine-readable authentic texts (including transcripts of spoken data)
sampled to be representative of a particular language or language variety. 

A corpus is made for the study of language in a broad sense.
1) To test existing linguistic theory and hypotheses.
2) To generate and verify new linguistic hypotheses.
3) Beyond linguistics, to provide textual evidence in text-based humanities and social sciences subjects.

Corpora and intuitions
1) They cooperate and can be gainfully viewed as being complementary
2) The key to using corpus data is to find the balance between the use of corpus data and the use of one's intuitions.

The corpus methodology
It is debatable whether CL is a methodology or a branch of linguistics.
In spite of the name, CL is indeed a methodology rather than an independent branch of linguistics in the same sense 
as phonetics, syntax, semantics, or pragmatics. 

Areas that have used corpora
Contrastive analysis, Lexical studies, Language teaching
Discourse analysis, Semantics, Grammatical studies, Language variation, 
Register genre analysis, Forensic linguistics, Sociolinguistics, Lexicography
Translation studies, Computational linguistics, Pragmatics, Stylistics
Language change, Literary study

Nature of corpus-based approach (Biber et al, 1998:4-5)
1) It is empirical, analysing the actual patterns of use from natural texts.
2) It utilises a large and principled collection of natural texts as the basis for analysis.
3) It makes extensive use of computers for analysis, using both automatic and interactive techniques. 
4) It integrates both quantitative and qualitative analytical techniques. 

Why use computers?
1) The development of computer technology has revived CL.
2) Machine-readability is a de facto attribute of modern corpora.
3) Electronic corpora have advantages unavailable to their "shoebox" ancestors.
4) Computerized corpora can be processed and manipulated rapidly at minimal cost.
5) Computers can process machine-readable data accurately and consistently.
6) Computers can avoid human bias in an analysis, thus making the result more reliable.
7) Machine-readability allows further automatic processing to be performed on the corpus 
   so that corpus data can be enriched with various metadata and linguistic analyses. 

What corpora cannot do
1) Corpora do not provide negative evidence.
   Cannot tell us what is possible or not.
   Can show what is central and typical in language.
2) Corpora can yield findings but rarely provide explanations for what is observed.
   Interfacing other methodologies. 
3) The use of corpora as a methodology also defines the boundaries of any given study.
    Importance of amenable research questions. 
4) The findings based on a particular corpus only tell us what is true in that corpus.
   Generalisation vs. representativeness 




3-2 Register I
Register is the level of formality with which you speak.

Four criteria to define a register:
1) Audience (who)
2) Topic (what)
3) Purpose (why)
4) Location (where)

Five categories of register:
1) Frozen
2) Formal
3) Consultative
4) Casual
5) Intimate

Frozen or "static" register
1) At this level, language is literally “frozen” in time and form.
2) It rarely changes.
3) This type of language is often learned and repeated by rote. 
4) E.g., Biblical verse, prayers, the Pledge of Allegiance, a bibliographic reference, laws 




3-3 Register II
Formal register
1) This style is impersonal and often follows a prescriptive format.
2) The speaker uses complete sentences, avoids slang, and may use technical or academic vocabulary.
3) It is likely that the speaker will use fewer contractions, but opt instead for complete words. 
4) Writing expert Rita Mae Brown argue that a writer or speaker is more likely to use vocabulary 
   with Latin or Greek roots at this register. 
5) This is the register used for most academic and scientific publishing.

Tips: In a formal register, one should avoid using 
abbreviation, slang, contractions, vague words, swear words,
sentence ending with etc. and so on 
lots of "!" and "?", 
text message grammar, 
and/or/but
small numerals





3-4 Register III
Consultative register
1) This is the register used when consulting an expert such as a doctor.
2) The language used is more precise.
3) The speaker is likely to address the expert by a title such as “Doctor”, “Mr.” or “Mrs.”.
4) Some sources say this register is the formal register used in conversation. 

Casual register
1) This is informal language used by peers and friends.
2) Slang and colloquialisms are normal.
3) This is “group” language.
4) One must be a member to engage in this register. 
5) This register is conversational in tone.
6) It is the language used among and between friends.
7) Words are general, rather than technical.
8) Rita Mae Brown (pp. 63 - 65) might say that at this register, speakers are more likely to use words
   with an Anglo-Saxon or Germanic root. 




3-5 Register IV
Intimate register
1) This communication is private.
2) The language used by lovers.
3) It is reserved for close family members or intimate people. 
4) It is also the language used in sexual harassment.
5) This is the most intimate form of language.
6) It is best avoided in public and professional situations. 

Rule of language use
1) One can usually transition from one language register to an adjacent one 
without encountering repercussions.
2) Skipping one or more levels is usually considered inappropriate and even offensive.
