Chapter 1 Introduction to Big Data and Language
1. When has the 4th Industrial Revolution started?
   Early 21st century
2. What are the main objects of the 4th Industrial Revolution?
   Information and intelligence
3. Which of the followings is not a mentioned strength of Big data?
   Data helps with categorization
4. Which of the followings is not a weakness of experts compared to Big data?
   Experts are very expensive to consult
5. Which of the following research is used to build Amazon Alexa?
   Speech Recognition



Chapter 2 Spoken and Written Data
1. What is the usage of backchannels?
   To show that listeners are listening and understanding
2. Which of the followings is an example of Deixis?
   This
3. Which of followings is not a usage of general extenders?
   To mark new information
4. Which of the followings is an example of hedges?
   A bit
5. Which of the following is not a characteristic of written English?
   Have context and shared knowledge playing major role



Chapter 3 Corpus and Registers
1. What do corpora cannot do?
   Provide negative evidence
2. Which of the followings is not a factor that language registers depend upon?
   Time
3. Which of the followings can be an example of usage of frozen register?
   Bible verse
4. Which register should be used in conversations between strangers?
   Consultative register
5. Which of the followings is not true about register?
   Words with Anglo-Saxon root are more preferred in formal register




Chapter 4 Parts of Speech
1. Which of the followings is an example of interrogative pronouns?
   what
2. Which of the followings is not a part-of-speech of "where"?
   Adjective
3. Which of the following is not a type of Conjunction Conjoin?
   Conjuntive
4. Which of the following is correct parts of speech of sentence 
   “Mike rudely chewed and talked with his mouth open”?
   Noun-Adv-Verb-Conj-Verb-Conj-Pro-Noun-Adj
5. Which of the following is correct parts of speech of sentence
   “Hey! Do you think we can get some service at this restaurant?”?
   Int-Verb-Pro-Verb-Pro-Verb-Verb-Adj-Noun-Prep-Adj-Noun
