4-1 Parts of Speech I
Words are classified into some categories according to their uses in a sentence.

Nouns: name for a person, animal, thing, place, idea, activity
Proper nouns: a noun directly associated with an entity and primarily used to refer to that entity
Common nouns: words used to name general items rather than specific ones
Abstract nouns: words that name things that are not concrete
Compound nouns: made of two or more words
Appositives are nouns or noun phrases that rename another noun or noun phrase.
   E.g., My friend "Tina" makes incredible chocolate fudge.

Pronouns: professional or alternate names used by nouns
Types of pronouns: personal, indefinite, interrogative, demonstrative, reflexive, relative...
When used to show possession, pronouns behave like adjectives and are called determiners.




4-2 Parts of Speech II
Verbs: express action or existence
Functions: 1) Describes a noun’s movement (action) or being (existence).
           2) Phrasal Verbs generally consist of a verb plus a preposition: Turn up the music. 

Preposition Positions
Precedes a phrase that acts as a modifier or noun by indicating a position in time, location, or manner. 




4-3 Parts of Speech III
Adjectives: modify a noun or pronoun

Adverbs: add to the meaning of a verb (or an adjective, another adverb, or a sentence)
Only an adverb can modify an adjective.

Adverbial Conjunctives connect independent clauses in a compound sentence:
Consequently, hence, however, moreover, nevertheless, otherwise, therefore... 

Adjectives and Adverbs in basic sentences:
1) Subjects, objects of verbs, and objects of prepositions are often nouns, so they can be described by adjectives.
2) Verbs can be described by adverbs. 




4-3 Parts of Speech IV
Conjunctions: connect words, phrases, or clauses “at the hip” like conjoined twins. 

Coordinating conjunctions: 
1) Coordinating conjunctions join two or more simple sentences (independent clauses) into one compound sentence.
2) Put a comma after the first simple sentence in a compound sentence. (Before the coordinating conjunction.) 

Subordinating conjunctions:
1) Subordinating conjunctions join an independent clause and a dependent clause in a complex sentence.
2) The dependent clause can come before or after an independent clause.
3) Use a comma when a dependent clause comes before an independent clause.

Correlative Conjunctions: E.g., both...and..., either...or...

In addition to conjunctions, relative pronouns, adverbial conjunctives, and prepositions are called connectives.

Interjections: express emotion (E.g., Gosh! Wow! Super!)
1) Ignites the message with an exclamation of emotion!
2) Expletives are interjectory words or expressions.
3) Interjections can stand alone or be part of a sentence. 

Only eight parts of speech are used to classify hundreds of thousands of words.
Many words can be used for more than one part of speech.\




4-5 Parts of Speech V
Determiners
A word, phrase, or affix that occurs together with a noun or noun phrase and serves to 
express the reference of that noun or noun phrase in the context. 

Articles
A word that is used with a noun to specify grammatical definiteness of the noun, 
and in some languages extending to volume or numerical scope. 

